index.md, before:

---
title: Home
layout: home
nav_order: 0
---

# Pirateduck's Hero Siege 2 Guides 

This is intended to be a temporary place to host my Hero Siege 2 guides, before I migrate them to the official wiki.

Please report any issues [here](https://github.com/antistoopmode/antistoopmode.github.io/issues). Feel free to make a pull request for this [Git Repository](https://github.com/antistoopmode/antistoopmode.github.io) when you want to add or fix something.

----

## Runewords (August 13, 2023)
Added the [Runewords](./docs/guides/runewords.html) guide with info on how to craft them and how the base influences the resulting item.

## Added Guild And Game Mode Pages (July 17, 2023)
Added basic info about [Guilds](./docs/social/guilds.html) and [Game Modes](./docs/mechanics/game_modes.html).

## Small Update Regarding Save File Editing (July 16, 2023)
I temporarily removed the "Save File Editing" guide on request of the developers in order to not spoil the discovery aspect of the new update. It will be back shortly after the HS2 launch.

Commit message:

added info about updated terminology

index.md, after:

---
title: Home
layout: home
nav_order: 0
---

# Pirateduck's Hero Siege 2 Guides 

This is intended to be a temporary place to host my Hero Siege 2 guides, before I migrate them to the official wiki.

Please report any issues [here](https://github.com/antistoopmode/antistoopmode.github.io/issues). Feel free to make a pull request for this [Git Repository](https://github.com/antistoopmode/antistoopmode.github.io) when you want to add or fix something.

----

## Terminology Update (August 14, 2023)
Updated the Damage, Defense and Stat page in order to reflect the latest naming changes (Magic and Physical Spell damage is now Arcane and Elemental is called Magic).

## Runewords (August 13, 2023)
Added the [Runewords](./docs/guides/runewords.html) guide with info on how to craft them and how the base influences the resulting item.

## Added Guild And Game Mode Pages (July 17, 2023)
Added basic info about [Guilds](./docs/social/guilds.html) and [Game Modes](./docs/mechanics/game_modes.html).

## Small Update Regarding Save File Editing (July 16, 2023)
I temporarily removed the "Save File Editing" guide on request of the developers in order to not spoil the discovery aspect of the new update. It will be back shortly after the HS2 launch.
