docs/mechanics/instances/key_dungeons.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Key Dungeons
parent: Instances
---

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Location</th>
    <th>Dungeon</th>
    <th>Key</th>
    <th>Reward</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>1-1</td>
    <td>Rat Den</td>
    <td>Smelly Cheese</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>1-3</td>
    <td>Pumpkin Cellar</td>
    <td>Cellar Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>1-4</td>
    <td>The Dark Woods</td>
    <td>Tower Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>2-1</td>
    <td>Frozen Cellar</td>
    <td>Frosted Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>2-5</td>
    <td>Ancient City</td>
    <td>Ancient Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>3-2</td>
    <td>Sand Cave</td>
    <td>Shovel</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>3-3</td>
    <td>Forgotten Ciry</td>
    <td>Mystic Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>3-5</td>
    <td>Pyramid Level 2</td>
    <td>Tomb Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>4-1</td>
    <td>Old Copper Mine</td>
    <td>Copper Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>4-3</td>
    <td>Mining Site A</td>
    <td>Rusted Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>4-5</td>
    <td>Devil's Hole</td>
    <td>Devil's Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>5-1</td>
    <td>Mt. Fuji</td>
    <td>Pickaxe</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>5-3</td>
    <td>Fuji Coast</td>
    <td>Battle Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>5-5</td>
    <td>Temple Trapdoor</td>
    <td>Golden Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>6-1</td>
    <td>Unmarked Grave</td>
    <td>Axe</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>6-4</td>
    <td>Steam Train</td>
    <td>Storage Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>7-2</td>
    <td>Distorted Horizons</td>
    <td>Warped Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>8-1</td>
    <td>Gladsheim Halls</td>
    <td>Valor Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>8-2</td>
    <td>Naga Temple</td>
    <td>Naga Scale Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>8-3</td>
    <td>Muspelheim</td>
    <td>Magma Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Commit message:

finished key dungeon page for now

docs/mechanics/instances/key_dungeons.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Key Dungeons
parent: Instances
---

# Key Dungeons
These Dungeons are free to enter on all difficulties in Hero Siege 2. Dungeon keys can by used to activate dungeon challenges.

(To be continued at a later date in order to avoid spoilers at launch..)

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Location</th>
    <th>Dungeon</th>
    <th>Key</th>
    <th>Reward</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>1-1</td>
    <td>Rat Den</td>
    <td>Smelly Cheese</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>1-3</td>
    <td>Pumpkin Cellar</td>
    <td>Cellar Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>1-4</td>
    <td>The Dark Woods</td>
    <td>Tower Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>2-1</td>
    <td>Frozen Cellar</td>
    <td>Frosted Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>2-5</td>
    <td>Ancient City</td>
    <td>Ancient Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>3-2</td>
    <td>Sand Cave</td>
    <td>Shovel</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>3-3</td>
    <td>Forgotten Ciry</td>
    <td>Mystic Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>3-5</td>
    <td>Pyramid Level 2</td>
    <td>Tomb Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>4-1</td>
    <td>Old Copper Mine</td>
    <td>Copper Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>4-3</td>
    <td>Mining Site A</td>
    <td>Rusted Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>4-5</td>
    <td>Devil's Hole</td>
    <td>Devil's Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>5-1</td>
    <td>Mt. Fuji</td>
    <td>Pickaxe</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>5-3</td>
    <td>Fuji Coast</td>
    <td>Battle Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>5-5</td>
    <td>Temple Trapdoor</td>
    <td>Golden Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>6-1</td>
    <td>Unmarked Grave</td>
    <td>Axe</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>6-4</td>
    <td>Steam Train</td>
    <td>Storage Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>7-2</td>
    <td>Distorted Horizons</td>
    <td>Warped Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>8-1</td>
    <td>Gladsheim Halls</td>
    <td>Valor Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>8-2</td>
    <td>Naga Temple</td>
    <td>Naga Scale Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>8-3</td>
    <td>Muspelheim</td>
    <td>Magma Key</td>
    <td></td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>
