docs/mechanics/stats.md, before:

---
title: Stats
layout: default
parent: Mechanics
---

# Stats
Stats increases the offense and defense of your character. These can be increased by equipped items, Attributes and certain Skills.

## Attributes
You are able to allocate 4 Attribute Points per level (400 in total) into the following Attributes:

- Strength: +1% Strength, +1 Additive Physical Damage per point
- Dexterity: +0.25% Critical Strike Damage, +5 Attack Rating per point
- Energy: +4 Mana per point
- Armor: +5 Defense per point
- Vitality: +5.5 Life per point

## Offensive Stats

### (Attack) Damage

The amount of Attack Damage you deal with Attack or Hybrid Skills when you hit an enemy (per weapon). This value includes all Additive Damage stats as well as Enhanced Damage.

### Attack Rating
The chance of hitting an enemies with an Attack or Hybrid Skill.

<!--- TODO: 
{: .label .label-red }
- EXPLAIN CALCULATION: % Chance to hit = clamp(2 * (_AR / (_AR + _DR)) * (_Alvl / (_Alvl + _Dlvl)), 0.05, 0.95) * 100
- CALCULATE REQUIRED ATTACK RATING TO HIT THE HIGHEST MONSTER LEVEL WHILE IGNORING THEIR DEFENSE (WITH A 95% CHANCE)
- CALCULATE REQUIRED ATTACK RATING TO HIT THE UBER OR WH BOSS WITH THE HIGHEST DEFENSE (WITH A 95% CHANCE) --->

Notes: 
- The chance is at least 5% and at most 95%.
- The Player's level is always +10 when attacking

### Increased Attack Rating
Increases the Attack Rating stat percentually.

### Attack Speed

Increases the amount of Attacks per Second you can perform. Attack Speed increases the Attacks per Second performed by 0.01 per percent.

Example:

Gear

```
Weapon 1: 1.50 APS (includes no additional Attack Speed)  
Weapon 2: 1.64 APS (includes +9% Attack Speed)  
Armor: +10% Attack speed
```

This results in the following total APS


```
Attacks per Second: 1.60 / 1.74
```

Notes:
- There are no diminishing returns
- There is no cap in Attack Speed or Attacks per Second 
- Attack Speed on a weapon only affects the speed of that specific weapon, while Attack Speed from other sources affects all equipped weapons. Attack Speed from the weapon and other sources are additive.
- Increases in Attacks per Second from Attack Speed are always calculated using 1 Attack per Second and therefore the scaling is linear.
- The Attacks per Second on the weapon tooltip already include any Attack Speed on the weapon itself

### Additive Damage

**Additive Physical Damage:**

The amount of Physical damage added to your Attacks.

**Additive [Magic/Cold/Fire/Poison/Lightning] Damage:**

The amount of [Magic/Cold/Fire/Poison/Lightning] damage added to your Attacks. This stat is affected by the [Magic/Cold/Fire/Poison/Lightning] Resistance of the enemy and cannot crit.

### Critical Strike Chance
The chance to deal a Critical Strike with Physical Attacks. The base Critical Strike Chance is 5%

### Critical Strike Damage
The amount of Critical Strike Damage you deal when you trigger a Critical Strike with Physical Attacks. The base Critical Strike Damage is 25%

### Faster Cast Rate
Increases the amount of Spells per Second you can cast. Faster Cast Rate increases the Spells per Second by 0.01 per percent.

Notes:
- There are no diminishing returns
- There is no cap in Faster Cast Rate or Spells per Second 
- Increases in Spells per Second from Faster Cast Rate are always calculated using 1 Spell per Second and therefore the scaling is linear

### Skill Damage
Increases the the damage of all Spell Skills and the Spell part of all Hybrid Skills. 
The stat "[Magic/Cold/Fire/Poison/Lightning] Skill Damage" increases the the [Magic/Cold/Fire/Poison/Lightning] damage of Spell Skills and the Spell part of Hybrid Skills.

### Target Defense Ignored
Ignores a percent of enemy defense rating when attacking, resulting in higher chance of hitting the enemy. 

100% of Target Defense Ignored will result in completely ignoring the Defense Rating of the enemy. In that case, only the enemy level and your Attack Rating will determine if you are able to hit your target.

### Chance for a Deadly Blow
Chance to deal Double Damage when striking an enemy.

<!--- TODO: 
- GLOBAL CHANCE OR PER WEAPON?
- DOES THE STAT EXIST ON ARMOR? IF YES: DOES IT AFFECT BOTH WEAPONS? --->

### Chance for a Crushing Blow
Chance to deal [Melee: (normal enemy 1/4) (boss 1/8)] [Ranged: (normal enemy 1/8) (boss 1/16)] of remaining health as damage.

<!--- TODO: 
- GLOBAL CHANCE OR PER WEAPON?
- DOES THE STAT EXIST ON ARMOR? IF YES: DOES IT AFFECT BOTH WEAPONS? --->

### Enhanced Damage
Increases your Physical damage percentually on weapons that have this stat.

<!--- TODO: 
- DOES THE STAT EXIST ON ARMOR? IF YES: DOES IT AFFECT BOTH WEAPONS? --->

### Chance to Open Wounds
Chance to make the enemy bleed for a total of 40% of your Physical Damage over 8 seconds.

### Enemy Resistance
The stat "-% to Enemy [Magic/Cold/Fire/Poison/Lightning] Resistances" affects the amount of damage enemies take from your [Magic/Cold/Fire/Poison/Lightning] damage.

### All Skills
Increases the level of all Skills by that amount.

## Defensive Stats
### Defense
Lowers the chance of getting hit by incoming Physical Attacks and Physical Projectiles.

<!--- TODO: 
- EXPLAIN CALCULATION: % Chance to get hit = clamp(2 * (_AR / (_AR + _DR)) * (_Alvl / (_Alvl + _Dlvl)), 0.05, 0.95) * 100
- CALCULATE REQUIRED DR TO HIT THE HIGHEST MONSTER LEVEL WHILE IGNORING THEIR DEFENSE
- CALCULATE REQUIRED ATTACK RATING TO HIT THE UBER OR WH BOSS WITH THE HIGHEST DEFENSE -->

Notes: 
- The chance is at least 5% and at most 95%.

### Increased Defense
Increases the [Defense] stat percentually (global).

### Defense vs Missiles
Increases your [Defense] rating percentually against enemy projectile Attacks.

### Enhanced Defense
Increases the Defense value on the item with this particular stat. The Defense value on the tooltip of those items already include the additional Defense from this stat. 

Notes:
- This stat doesn't increase your Defense globally.

### Block Chance
The percent of chance to block incoming Physical attacks and Physical projectiles. 

The only source for Block Chance is the shield, which makes it impossible to reach more than 75% block chance.

### (Physical) Damage Reduction
Reduces all incoming Physical damage.

### (Elemental) Damage Reduction
Reduces all incoming Non-Physical damage. This damage reduction applies to Magic, Cold, Fire, Poison and Lightning damage.

### Life
The maximum amount of Life. It represents the amount of damage a character can take before they die.

### Life stolen per Hit
Replenishes Life when hitting an enemy with a Physical Attack. The amount of replenished Life is based on the Physical damage dealt.

### Replenish Life
Increases your base regeneration rate defined by the amount of Life you have by a percentage.

### Resistance
Resistances affect the amount of damage taken from Magic, Cold, Fire, Poison or Lightning damage.

A penalty to all resistances is applied to player characters depending on the difficulty:
- Normal: [1-5] [0%]
- Nightmare: [1-5] [-35%/-40%/-45%/-50%/-55%]
- Hell: [1-5] [-75%/-80%/-85%/-95%/-100%]

<!--- ### Slow
TODO:
- WHAT DOES SLOW DO? ONLY ENEMY MOVEMENT SPEED REDUCTION OR ACTION SPEED?
- CAN IT BE TRIGGERED WITH BOTH ATTACKS AND SPELLS? -->

##  Faster Hit Recovery
Reduces the recovery time after getting hit by enemy basic or projectile attacks. (When you get hit you "stutter" for a while)

<!--- 
TODO:
- WHAT DOES THE STUTTER EXACTLY DO?
- HOW LONG IS THE DEFAULT STUTTER DURATION AND HOW DOES FHR AFFECT IT -->

### (Incoming) Poison Duration
Reduces the time of being poisoned. 

<!--- TODO: 
- DOES THE REDUCTION STACK ADDITIVELY? 
- IS THERE A MIN DURATION? -->

### (Incoming) Freeze Duration
Reduces the time of being frozen.

There are currently two sources on items for this stat: 
- Half Freeze Duration
- Cannot be Frozen

<!--- TODO: 
- DO 2x items with "stat_half_freeze_duration" do the same thing as "stat_cannot_be_frozen"?? -->

## Utility Stats
### Mana
The maximum amount of Mana. It can be consumed to use Skills.

### Mana stolen per Hit
Replenishes Mana when hitting an enemy with a Physical Attack. The amount of replenished Mana is based on the Physical damage dealt.

### Replenish Mana
Increases your base regeneration rate defined by the amount of Mana you have by a percentage.

### Extra Gold Dropped From Kills
Increases the percentage of Gold dropped from enemies killed.

### Increase Experience Gain
Increases your experience gained from killing enemies.

### Magic Find
Increases the chance of finding Satanic / Set / Angelic items by the amount of Magic Find.

Example:
With 300% Magic Find you are 3x more likely to drop your desired item.

Find out more on how Magic Find works over at [Hero Siege 2 Roadmap - Magic Find & Drops](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1QWjl6lITbMkjptYPIRwnIVUs7JQkqfEqAILlCgp1zAM/edit#gid=1759635168).

<!--- TODO: 
- DOES IT ALSO AFFECT CHASE ITEMS -->

----

[Defense]: #defense

Commit message:

fixed small issues on the stats page

docs/mechanics/stats.md, after:

---
title: Stats
layout: default
parent: Mechanics
---

# Stats
Stats increases the offense and defense of your character. These can be increased by equipped items, Attributes and certain Skills.

## Attributes
You are able to allocate 4 Attribute Points per level (400 in total) into the following Attributes:

- Strength: +1% Strength, +1 Additive Physical Damage per point
- Dexterity: +0.25% Critical Strike Damage, +5 Attack Rating per point
- Energy: +4 Mana per point
- Armor: +5 Defense per point
- Vitality: +5.5 Life per point

## Offensive Stats

### (Attack) Damage

The amount of Attack Damage you deal with Attack or Hybrid Skills when you hit an enemy (per weapon). This value includes all Additive Damage stats as well as Enhanced Damage.

### Attack Rating
The chance of hitting an enemies with an Attack or Hybrid Skill.

<!--- TODO: 
{: .label .label-red }
- EXPLAIN CALCULATION: % Chance to hit = clamp(2 * (_AR / (_AR + _DR)) * (_Alvl / (_Alvl + _Dlvl)), 0.05, 0.95) * 100
- CALCULATE REQUIRED ATTACK RATING TO HIT THE HIGHEST MONSTER LEVEL WHILE IGNORING THEIR DEFENSE (WITH A 95% CHANCE)
- CALCULATE REQUIRED ATTACK RATING TO HIT THE UBER OR WH BOSS WITH THE HIGHEST DEFENSE (WITH A 95% CHANCE) --->

Notes: 
- The chance is at least 5% and at most 95%.
- The Player's level is always +10 when attacking

### Increased Attack Rating
Increases the Attack Rating stat percentually.

### Attack Speed

Increases the amount of Attacks per Second you can perform. Attack Speed increases the Attacks per Second performed by 0.01 per percent.

Example:

Gear

```
Weapon 1: 1.50 APS (includes no additional Attack Speed)  
Weapon 2: 1.64 APS (includes +9% Attack Speed)  
Armor: +10% Attack speed
```

This results in the following total APS


```
Attacks per Second: 1.60 / 1.74
```

Notes:
- There are no diminishing returns
- There is no cap in Attack Speed or Attacks per Second 
- Attack Speed on a weapon only affects the speed of that specific weapon, while Attack Speed from other sources affects all equipped weapons. Attack Speed from the weapon and other sources are additive.
- Increases in Attacks per Second from Attack Speed are always calculated using 1 Attack per Second and therefore the scaling is linear.
- The Attacks per Second on the weapon tooltip already include any Attack Speed on the weapon itself

### Additive Damage

**Additive Physical Damage:**

The amount of Physical damage added to your Attacks.

**Additive [Magic/Cold/Fire/Poison/Lightning] Damage:**

The amount of [Magic/Cold/Fire/Poison/Lightning] damage added to your Attacks. This stat is affected by the [Magic/Cold/Fire/Poison/Lightning] Resistance of the enemy and cannot crit.

### Critical Strike Chance
The chance to deal a Critical Strike with Physical Attacks. The base Critical Strike Chance is 5%

### Critical Strike Damage
The amount of Critical Strike Damage you deal when you trigger a Critical Strike with Physical Attacks. The base Critical Strike Damage is 25%

### Faster Cast Rate
Increases the amount of Spells per Second you can cast. Faster Cast Rate increases the Spells per Second by 0.01 per percent.

Notes:
- There are no diminishing returns
- There is no cap in Faster Cast Rate or Spells per Second 
- Increases in Spells per Second from Faster Cast Rate are always calculated using 1 Spell per Second and therefore the scaling is linear

### Skill Damage
Increases the the damage of all Spell Skills and the Spell part of all Hybrid Skills. 
The stat "[Magic/Cold/Fire/Poison/Lightning] Skill Damage" increases the the [Magic/Cold/Fire/Poison/Lightning] damage of Spell Skills and the Spell part of Hybrid Skills.

### Target Defense Ignored
Ignores a percent of enemy defense rating when attacking, resulting in higher chance of hitting the enemy. 

100% of Target Defense Ignored will result in completely ignoring the Defense Rating of the enemy. In that case, only the enemy level and your Attack Rating will determine if you are able to hit your target.

### Chance for a Deadly Blow
Chance to deal Double Damage when striking an enemy.

<!--- TODO: 
- GLOBAL CHANCE OR PER WEAPON?
- DOES THE STAT EXIST ON ARMOR? IF YES: DOES IT AFFECT BOTH WEAPONS? --->

### Chance for a Crushing Blow
Chance to deal [Melee: (normal enemy 1/4) (boss 1/8)] [Ranged: (normal enemy 1/8) (boss 1/16)] of remaining health as damage.

<!--- TODO: 
- GLOBAL CHANCE OR PER WEAPON?
- DOES THE STAT EXIST ON ARMOR? IF YES: DOES IT AFFECT BOTH WEAPONS? --->

### Enhanced Damage
Increases your Physical damage percentually on weapons that have this stat.

<!--- TODO: 
- DOES THE STAT EXIST ON ARMOR? IF YES: DOES IT AFFECT BOTH WEAPONS? --->

### Chance to Open Wounds
Chance to make the enemy bleed for a total of 40% of your Physical Damage over 8 seconds.

### Enemy Resistance
The stat "-% to Enemy [Magic/Cold/Fire/Poison/Lightning] Resistances" affects the amount of damage enemies take from your [Magic/Cold/Fire/Poison/Lightning] damage.

### All Skills
Increases the level of all Skills by that amount.

## Defensive Stats
### Defense
Lowers the chance of getting hit by incoming Physical Attacks and Physical Projectiles.

<!--- TODO: 
- EXPLAIN CALCULATION: % Chance to get hit = clamp(2 * (_AR / (_AR + _DR)) * (_Alvl / (_Alvl + _Dlvl)), 0.05, 0.95) * 100
- CALCULATE REQUIRED DR TO HIT THE HIGHEST MONSTER LEVEL WHILE IGNORING THEIR DEFENSE
- CALCULATE REQUIRED ATTACK RATING TO HIT THE UBER OR WH BOSS WITH THE HIGHEST DEFENSE -->

Notes: 
- The chance is at least 5% and at most 95%.

### Increased Defense
Increases the [Defense] stat percentually (global).

### Defense vs Missiles
Increases your [Defense] rating percentually against enemy projectile Attacks.

### Enhanced Defense
Increases the Defense value on the item with this particular stat. The Defense value on the tooltip of those items already include the additional Defense from this stat. 

Notes:
- This stat doesn't increase your Defense globally.

### Block Chance
The percent of chance to block incoming Physical attacks and Physical projectiles. 

The only source for Block Chance is the shield, which makes it impossible to reach more than 75% block chance.

### (Physical) Damage Reduction
Reduces all incoming Physical damage.

### (Elemental) Damage Reduction
Reduces all incoming Non-Physical damage. This damage reduction applies to Magic, Cold, Fire, Poison and Lightning damage.

### Life
The maximum amount of Life. It represents the amount of damage a character can take before they die.

### Life stolen per Hit
Replenishes Life when hitting an enemy with a Physical Attack. The amount of replenished Life is based on the Physical damage dealt.

### Replenish Life
Increases your base regeneration rate defined by the amount of Life you have by a percentage.

### Resistance
Resistances affect the amount of damage taken from Magic, Cold, Fire, Poison or Lightning damage.

A penalty to all resistances is applied to player characters depending on the difficulty:
- Normal: [1-5] [0%]
- Nightmare: [1-5] [-35%/-40%/-45%/-50%/-55%]
- Hell: [1-5] [-75%/-80%/-85%/-95%/-100%]

<!--- ### Slow
TODO:
- WHAT DOES SLOW DO? ONLY ENEMY MOVEMENT SPEED REDUCTION OR ACTION SPEED?
- CAN IT BE TRIGGERED WITH BOTH ATTACKS AND SPELLS? -->

###  Faster Hit Recovery
Reduces the recovery time / "stutter" after getting hit by enemy basic or projectile attacks.

<!--- 
TODO:
- WHAT DOES THE STUTTER EXACTLY DO?
- HOW LONG IS THE DEFAULT STUTTER DURATION AND HOW DOES FHR AFFECT IT -->

### (Incoming) Poison Duration
Reduces the time of being poisoned. 

<!--- TODO: 
- DOES THE REDUCTION STACK ADDITIVELY? 
- IS THERE A MIN DURATION? -->

### (Incoming) Freeze Duration
Reduces the time of being frozen. There are two stats that affect the incoming freeze duration "Half Freeze Duration" and "Cannot be Frozen".

<!--- TODO: 
- DO 2x items with "stat_half_freeze_duration" do the same thing as "stat_cannot_be_frozen"?? -->

## Utility Stats
### Mana
The maximum amount of Mana. It can be consumed to use Skills.

### Mana stolen per Hit
Replenishes Mana when hitting an enemy with a Physical Attack. The amount of replenished Mana is based on the Physical damage dealt.

### Replenish Mana
Increases your base regeneration rate defined by the amount of Mana you have by a percentage.

### Extra Gold Dropped From Kills
Increases the percentage of Gold dropped from enemies killed.

### Increase Experience Gain
Increases your experience gained from killing enemies.

### Magic Find
Increases the chance of finding Satanic / Set / Angelic items by the amount of Magic Find.

Example:
With 300% Magic Find you are 3x more likely to drop your desired item.

Find out more on how Magic Find works over at [Hero Siege 2 Roadmap - Magic Find & Drops](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1QWjl6lITbMkjptYPIRwnIVUs7JQkqfEqAILlCgp1zAM/edit#gid=1759635168).

<!--- TODO: 
- DOES IT ALSO AFFECT CHASE ITEMS -->

----

[Defense]: #defense
